So, are you ready for the next exercise?
Gulp, it is.
Before you start this exercise,
the first thing I would like you to do is
to go to the confusion folder, and
then go inside node modules, and
then delete everything inside
the node modules folder.
We are not going to be using Grunt in this
exercise, we are going to be using Gulp.
So we will install all the Gulp
plugins into this folder.
Going back to the node modules folder,
now we're gonna make some
changes to the project.
First, open package.json file and
then replace the contents
of the package.json file with
the contents shown here.
So we are again dress toting the
package.json file two weeks empty state so
that we can start installing all the gulp
plugins and gulp/ related packages.
Next, at the command prompt,
type npm install -g gulp.
Remember if you
are using Mac or Linux,
use sudo in front of it.
Once Gulp has installed and completed,
then you're going to install
the Gulp locally with our project.
At the command prompt,
type npm install gulp
--save-dev.
Next, I am going to install all the Gulp
plugins and load modules that I'm
gonna make use of in this exercise in one
shot rather than doing them one by one.
And the command prompt,
type in the statement and
the let all the,
Gulp plugins be installed.
It'll take a few minutes.
After waiting for quite a few minutes,
everything will get installed
on your machine in one shot.
Next, let's go ahead and
configure our Gulp file.
Go to the conFusion folder
in your text editor and
then create a new file named
gulpfile.js with a small g.
Now we're going to paste in all the Gulp
related tasks into this file step by step.
First I'm going to load in all
the plugins that I have just installed.
In the gulp file I am now importing all
Next I have pasted in the code for
the jshint,
the clean and the default task here.
Next I paste in the code for the usemin
task, which we have examined before.
After this I have pasted in the code for
the imagemin task.
Next I pasted in the code for
the copyfonts task.
Now I did not explain
the copy font task earlier.
Now what the copy font task does
is it uses the gulp source and
then reads in all the font files from
the copyfonts and
the boot strap disk folders, and
then pipes all those files directly to the
destination folder, which is dist fonts.
There's no transformation
to be done to these files.
They just need to be copied from
the bower components folders
to the dist fonts folder.
So I'm just coping them using the pipe g/.
No addition transformation is being done.
Finally, I pasted the code for
the watch and the BrowserSync.
We have only examined this code
in the lecture previously so
I'm not going into more
details about on this.
Now once we have completed all this, then
we'll go ahead and save the gulp file.
Returning to the Terminal,
now add the prompt.
If I type in gulp this is
going to run the default task.
The default task cleans up
the distribution folder if it exists and
then does the JS hinting.
The usemin and the imagemin and
copy force tasks.
So let's go ahead and
run using just gulp and the prompt.
Once you run the gulp command
then you would notice that there
first, the clean task is run.
Then, the default task starts,
which includes the JS hinting,
the image main clean.
And the default tasks all are started
together, the copy font tasks,
and once they all complete, then your
distribution folder is now ready.
Going to the confusion folder you can
now see that the dispersion folder has
been prepared.
Going into the dispersion
folder you can see that we have
the fonts all ready copied there.
We have all the images that have
been optimized and copied here.
We have the menu.html.
Inside the scripts file,
notice that we have the main.js.
Again, using the rev,
the rev that we used in Gulp
is somewhat different from the file
route that we used with Grunt but
they achieve similar results meaning
that the main will have some random
strings of characters
attached to the name.
Same thing with ties.
You can see that the main
RCS is filed there.
Now, if you open the main user HTML file,
it should work correctly
in your default browser.
So you can see the menu.html file being
served up in your default browser here.
Recall that in the Gulp file, I configured
the Watch task and the BrowserSync task.
Let's see how these two work together.
To do that, at the command prompt
I'm gonna type Gulp watch.
This will cause the watch
task to be executed.
When the watch task executes, it'll cause
the BrowserSync task to be executed
before that, and that in turn will
cause the default task to be executed,
which means that first your
distribution folder is built.
Then the BrowserSync will load
the page into your default browser
by starting a server, and then the Watch
task will keep your watch on the files.
So let's run this and see the result.
You will note that
the BrowserSync now starts up,
and then opens the web page
in the default browser.
BrowserSync seems to have a little bit
of problem adjusting here to Gulp.
Now, you would see that it'll
show this thing called get all
cannot get slash here.
Just reload the page and
then you will see the webpage coming in.
There seems to be some little
issue with not having the index
not start the HTML file but after this,
everything works perfectly fine.
So you can see that the menu.html
file is served up here.
Now just like what we saw with live
reload, I'm now going to go and
then edit the html file,
the menu.html file in the app folder.
And then you would see the behavior of how
BrowserSync automatically syncs the page.
Going to the menu.html page,
now for the tabs there,
I'm going to remove that
space between the the and
the menu there and then save the file.
You would note that Watch task notices
that this html file has changed and
then it will Usenet task and
then that, in turn,
will trigger BrowserSync
to reload the page.
So if I now go to the webpage, you will
see the modified webpage being loaded.
Going to the webpage you notice
that the modified webpages will
already be loaded into the browser.
When you go to your terminal,
you will, or your command window,
you will notice that Gulp has noticed
the change in the HTML page and
then it re-runs the usemin task and
after that,
since the files the distribution
folder's change,
the browser sync will
notice what the change.
And then it'll reload
the page in my browser.
This completes the gulp
exercise I hope that
quick run-through gulp was informative for
you to understand how gulp can be used for
configuring and
running your web development tasks.
Now this exercise I went through
more quickly than Grant,
because you have seen all
these steps with Grant.
I'm just repeating all
the steps with Gulp.
Hopefully you have understood the,
functionality,
and the advantages that the task
runners bring to our web development.
Now that you have completed the gulp
exercise, it's time for a Big Gulp,
7-Eleven, here I come.